and guard spoke all these words I am the
Lord your God who brought you out of the
land of Egypt out of the house of
bondage you shall have no other gods
before me you shall not make for
yourself a carved image any likeness of
anything that is in heaven above or that
is in the earth beneath or that is in
the water under the earth you shall not
bow down to them nor serve them for I
the Lord your God am a jealous God
visiting the iniquity of the father's
upon the children to the third and
fourth generations of those who hate me
but showing mercy to thousands to those
who love me and keep my Commandments you
shall not take the name of the Lord your
God in vain for the Lord will not hold
him guiltless who takes his name in vain
remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy
six days you shall labor and do all your
work but the seventh day is the Sabbath
of the Lord your God in it you shall do
no work you nor your son nor your
daughter nor your male servant nor your
female servant nor your cattle nor your
stranger who is within your gates for in
six days the Lord made the heavens and
the earth the sea and all that is in
them and rested the seventh day
therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath
day and hallowed it honor your father
and your mother that your days may be
long upon the land which the Lord your
God is giving you you shall not murder
you shall not commit adultery you shall
not steal
you shall not bear false witness against
your neighbor you shall not covet your
neighbor's house you shall not covet
your neighbor's wife nor his male
servant nor his female servant nor his
ox nor his donkey nor anything that is
your neighbors now all the people
witness the thunderings and lightnings
flashes the sound of the trumpet and the
mountains smoking when the people saw it
they trembled and stood afar off then
they said to Moses you speak with us and
we will hear but let not God speak with
us lest we die
and Moses said to the people do not fear
for God has come to test you and that
his fear may be the for you so that you
may not sin so the people stood afar off
but Moses
drew near the thick darkness where God
was and the Lord said to Moses
thus you shall say to the children of
Israel you have seen that I have toured
with you from heaven you shall not make
anything to be with me gods of silver or
gods of gold you shall not make for
yourself an altar of Earth you shall
make for me and you shall sacrifice on
it your burnt offerings and your peace
offerings your shield and your oxen in
every place where I record my name I
will come to you and I will bless you
and if you make me an altar of stone you
shall not build it of hewn stone for if
you use your tool on it you have
profaned it nor shall you go up by steps
to my order but your nakedness may not
be exposed